---
title: How to Build a Personal Academic Website
date: 2023-08-05T00:00:00.000Z
permalink: /posts/2023/08/blog-post-1/
published: true
tags:
  - note
---

My solution is to use GitHub Pages + Jekyll + Prose.io (+ academicpages, a template for Jekyll).

Usually, one mature way to build a website is to use a *Content Management System (CMS)* like Jekyll or Hexo. The main merit of these softwares is that the user only needs to write source files in markdown instead of heavy languages like HTML. However, there is one disadvantage: they require the user to install complicated software packages on the local computer (the user is supposed to build the website locally and then deploy to a server). This often causes dependency issues because some of the packages installed are deprecated or updated so that they become incompatible with some other packages. Also, it is very inconvenient to write blogs on a new computer. I have tried to maintain a blog via Hexo multiple times, but they were all deprecated because I was too lazy to install the Hexo packages after my operating system was reinstalled or I got a new computer.

The mentioned issue is now less critical because GitHub has introduced "auto deployment", which allows users to upload the source file to GitHub Pages repository (instead of the compiled static site), and GitHub will build the site automatically. Hence, users no longer need to keep Jekyll installed locally; we can even establish the website without installing softwares at all. (It is possible that GitHub also supports Hexo auto deployment now, but till the last time I used Hexo, this feature didn't exist.)

Lastly, Prose.io provides a way of editing the markdown files in GitHub repositories online. This is equivalent to keeping a clone of the repository locally and editing the files using local editors.

Test of math formulas: $x$, $\sum_{i=1}^n a_i^2$, $\Big\lVert\phi\Big\rVert$.
<div>
\[
\begin{aligned}
\log \binom{U}{n} + R &\ge 0, \\
1 + 2 &= 3^{1 \times 1}.
\end{aligned}
\]
</div>
When writing large equations, we need to manually use `<div>\[ formula \]</div>` or `<div>$$ formula $$</div>` to protect it from being messed up by the markdown renderer. The math support is less comprehensive than LaTeX or Typora, e.g., it does not support `\textup` or `\newcommand`.
